Japan, India sign agreement on civil nuclear power
Landmark agreement signed in Tokyo despite criticism from anti-nuclear groups citing threats to safety.

Abe and Modi are seeking to advance business and security cooperation [Kiyoshi Ota/EPA]Abe and Modi are seeking to advance business and security cooperation [Kiyoshi Ota/EPA]
Japan has signed a controversial deal to sell  civil nuclear power equipment and technology to India, despite resistance from campaigners, as the two countries seek to boost business and security ties.

The pact, signed on Friday in Tokyo by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi , marked the first time Japan agreed to such a deal with a country that is not a member of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.


Signing of Agreement for Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy is a historic step in our engagement for a clean energy partnership.
7:48 AM - 11 Nov 2016
  2,635 2,635 Retweets   8,961 8,961 likes
The treaty bans nations other than the five permanent members of the UN Security Council from developing and possessing nuclear weapons.

INSIDE STORY: India - Flexing its military muscle

Critics in Japan, the victim of US atomic bombings in the final days of World War II, have previously raised concerns about a risk of the country's technology being diverted to India's nuclear weapons programme. 

Yet, the deal is limited to peaceful commercial use, and Tokyo cam terminate it if India conducts a nuclear test.

The pact allows India to reprocess fuel and enrich uranium, though highly enriched uranium that can be used to make nuclear weapons is not permitted without written agreement by Japan.


India's Nuclear Riddle - People & Power
Abe and Modi insisted the agreement will contribute to peaceful use of clean energy.

"This agreement sets a legal framework to assure that India acts responsibly for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy," Abe said, adding that it gets India to effectively participate in the non-proliferation treaty framework.

"It is also in line with Japan's position to promote non-proliferation to create a world without nuclear weapons." 

Abe's pro-business government seeks to export nuclear power plants to counter shrinking sales at home since the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, and has discussed similar deals with Vietnam and Turkey.

Modi praised the signing as "a historic step in our engagement to build a clean energy partnership" that will help India to "combat the challenge of climate change".

 
Indo-Japanese #Nuclear agreement amounts to nuclear proliferation in Asia warns Greenpeace
5:30 AM - 10 Nov 2016
Photo published for Indo-Japanese Nuclear Agreement Amounts to Nuclear Proliferation in Asia warns Greenpeace
Indo-Japanese Nuclear Agreement Amounts to Nuclear Proliferation in Asia warns Greenpeace
New Delhi/ Tokyo, 10 November 2016 --The signing of the Nuclear Cooperation Agreement between Japan and India, will not save Westinghouse/Toshiba’s failing nuclear business, nor will it deliver safe...
greenpeace.org
  3 3 Retweets   1 1 like
Anti-nuclear groups denounced the agreement, citing threats to safety and regional peace and increased risk of proliferation.

"There is no effective separation between India’s nuclear energy programme and its weapons programme, and the Japanese government’s agreement conditions are meaningless," Shaun Burnie, a senior nuclear specialist at Greenpeace Japan, said in a statement . 

"Approving nuclear trade with India is a geo-strategic decision to support further nuclear weapons proliferation in Asia."

OPINION: Are India and Pakistan heading for a nuclear showdown?

The women of Fukushima, an anti-nuclear lobbying group, have issued an  appeal  to Modi to visit the disaster area and see at first hand the consequences of nuclear power.

"Nuclear power plants will not bring happiness to your citizens," the group said in an open letter.  

"We who experienced the injury of the nuclear accident, we came to understand this through our own bodies and lives."


Energy-hungry India wants to increase nuclear power generation to support its strong economic growth. The country has signed similar nuclear agreements with France, Russia, Britain and the United States.

Cleveland Indians: Native Americans rally against logo
As Cleveland Indians play Chicago Cubs in one of the most anticipated baseball games, activists take aim at mascot.


		
		
		
		
		
Civil rights leader Philip Yenyo says the Cleveland Indians' logo is offensive to Native Americans [Al Jazeera]
A Native American group protested outside one of the most anticipated World Series baseball games to decry what has been described as the most offensive logo in US sports - the "Chief Wahoo" caricature used by the Cleveland Indians.
The long-standing logo, which appears on their team jerseys, depicts a grinning, red-faced cartoon with a feather headband.
Hundreds of Native American activists staged their protest as the game was played out on Tuesday at the Progressive Field baseball park - the first of seven matches between the rivals and the first World Series game for the Cleveland Indians in two decades.

"What we hope to accomplish is to bring new awareness to this issue and have it resolved by eliminating the name and the logo," Civil rights activist Philip Yenyo had told Al Jazeera ahead of the protest.
Similar protests have been over the years, often on the opening day of major games.
'We're a living culture'
"From my point of view, there's a lot of money to be made off of what I believe is the blood of a culture. They [Cleveland Indians club] also claim that they have a history, that they want to preserve. For me, I believe that their history is full of genocide," said Yenyo.
Last week, an Ontario judge quashed a last-minute attempt to bar the Cleveland Indians from using their team name and "Chief Wahoo" logo during Monday night's playoff game in Toronto.
Two years ago, the Cleveland Indians replaced "Wahoo" as their primary logo with a red "C". The home uniform, however, still features the caricature on caps and sleeves.
"I can't support a team that continues to harm people in this way. I just can't, it's not in me to support them, so go Cubs!" Yenyo said.
Other clubs also use logos featuring racist depictions of Native American characters, from the Washington Redskins and Chicago Blackhawks to the Atlanta Braves.
"I think they're offensive. I don't believe that any group of people should be used as mascots. We're human beings, we're a living culture ... our ancestors have passed down knowledge to us and our spiritual beliefs," said Yenyo. 
The "Chief Wahoo" character wears an "eagle feather that is very sacred to our people", he added.
To use such a symbol for entertainment "would be like me desecrating the cross for Christians or the star of David, or any other images or logos or icons of a particular religion".


Reversing the anti-refugee discourse with art
While Europe seems to be losing humanity in the face of a refugee crisis, a counter-wave of artistic events is emerging.


		
		
		
		
		
Refugees look at Sicily from on board the rescue vessel Responder on October 22 [EPA]

by
Rachel Shabi
@rachshabi
Rachel Shabi is a journalist and author of Not the Enemy: Israel's Jews from Arab Lands.
Walking the streets of Palermo, Sicily, it is immediately obvious why this Italian island should be hosting its second festival of migrant literature this year.
The festival, on the Mediterranean island where thousands of migrants have arrived after perilous journeys by sea, is a showcase of migration's cultural heritage.
And the island itself is a living, breathing celebration of such heritage: a melting pot of different ethnicities, each adding their own layer of influence in the form of food, architecture, art, linguistic influence or economic development.
Roman, Greek and Phoenician empires all passed through Sicily. Then Muslim rule of the island turned it into a thriving, cosmopolitan centre of trade and left Arab signatures in the cuisine as well as on the streets, while the Normans, arriving in the 11th century, presided over a period in which art and architecture flourished, amalgamating Arab, Byzantine and western influences.
Various European rules came and went right up to the unification of Italy in the 19th century, each similarly drawn by Sicily's location in the heart of the Mediterranean.
Now, all this is practically in the DNA of the place, part of its spirit and identity: people come, people go; they add something to the mix, the blend is in itself innovative and the sum is intrinsically interconnected.

Refugees housed in iconic German airport

Migrating across place and time
And so a festival of migrant literature, held over four days last month in Palermo, is in keeping, a continuation of that line.
Some 150 writers with migrant backgrounds and from around the world brought a range of literary, creative and journalistic discussions to the city: Iraqi, Syrian and Lebanese novelists and satirists alongside Italian, Somalian, Senegalese, Turkish, Polish and Serbian writers and poets, as well as Nobel laureate, Nigerian writer Wole Soyinka.
The festival's artistic director, Davide Camarrone, noted that literature and migration are in some sense synonymous, since literature, like people, migrates across place and time.
All of which is a bold and welcome counterpoint to the hostile, suspicious and scapegoating language around migration that has surfaced across Europe.
It's rare to see a focus on any benefits of migration, or the idea that an exchange between host communities and migrants might bring positives in both directions.
 
Faced with the largest refugee crisis since the World War II, with thousands fleeing warfare and persecution in countries such as Syria, Iraq, Sudan, Eritrea and Afghanistan, the reaction around much of Europe has been a hardening of hearts and a bolstering of border patrols.
Whether it is wealthier nations such as Britain or France, or poorer European Union members such as Romania or Bulgaria, the comments are strikingly similar: countries are too full, refugees are someone else's problem and migrants are either a security threat, a terrible culture clash or a financial burden, to the extent that their arrival must be controlled or stopped entirely.
While individuals and organisations have often - as is the case in Sicily - stepped in to help, the EU's approach to the refugee crisis has been disastrous, failing to share responsibility regardless of where migrants first arrive.
And far-right politicians, in concert with tabloid papers, mainstream a constant supply of hatred and anxiety over the issue.
No focus on the benefits of migration
Even when the discussion around the migration crisis softens, when there are moments of sympathy - such as the widespread outpouring of emotion over images of drowned Syrian toddler Alan Kurdi, a year ago - the context is of refugees as desperate and in need.
It is rare to see a focus on any benefits of migration, or the idea that an exchange between host communities and migrants might bring positives in both directions.
ALSO READ: Refugees take centre stage at Berlin's film festival
Stories that do illuminate potential benefits stand out: a recent example being a report on how immigration helped fuel an economic boom in Sweden, which took in more migrants per capita than any other European nation last year.
Still, set against all that, cultural festivals with a focus on migrants are popping up across Europe. Italy has already hosted two such literary festivals alongside the Palermo event: in Milan and in Mantua, Lombardy, earlier this year.

London is hosting its first migration film festival this month, while international film festivals from Edinburgh to Berlin have this year focused on the issue.
These join long-established calendar events, such as Luxemburg's massive migrant and cultures festival now in its 33rd year, or Slovenia's migrant film festival, an international event held on world refugee day since 2010.
It seems fitting that, while Europe collectively appears to be losing a sense of humanity in the face of a refugee crisis, a counter-wave of literary and artistic events is emerging, where the human wealth, the cultural assets and the knowledge that newcomers bring are acknowledged, explored and celebrated.
Rachel Shabi is a journalist and author of Not the Enemy: Israel's Jews from Arab Lands.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera's editorial policy.

Schumer, Liberal Leaders Rally Behind Rep. Ellison for DNC Chair
After election losses, the party’s left wing is angling for an overhaul


ENLARGE
Rep. Keith Ellison speaking during a news conference in May about Islamophobia at the National Press Club in Washington PHOTO: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES
By JANET HOOK
Nov. 11, 2016 10:02 a.m. ET

63 COMMENTS
Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, who is in line to become senior Democrat in the Senate, is throwing his weight behind a progressive leader, Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, to be the next head of the Democratic National Committee, a spokesman said.
Mr. Schumer joins Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, whose Democratic primary challenge to Hillary Clinton energized progressives disenchanted with her as the establishment choice, and liberal leaders in backing Mr. Ellison.
Mr. Ellison has also won praise from Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a liberal icon, who said Thursday night on MSNBC that he would make a “terrific DNC chair.”

–– ADVERTISEMENT ––





The endorsements from those influential Democrats come at a time when the party is wrestling with an identity crisis and a leadership vacuum in the wake of the unexpected defeat of Hillary Clinton and the party’s failure to win control of the Senate.
		
		Trump’s Transition Team Works to Form Cabinet The president-elect’s transition team raced to form his cabinet, as more names were floated for some of the biggest jobs in the administration. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Trump Faces Battle to Undo Iran Nuclear Deal Donald Trump could pull the U.S. out of the nuclear deal with Iran once in office, but convincing powers in Europe and Russia to follow would be a challenge. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Trump’s Point Man on Financial Regulation: A Former Regulator Who Favors a Light Touch As an SEC commissioner, Paul Atkins protested large fines against companies and sweeping stock-trading requirements. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		ADVERTISEMENT  
		
		Trade, Not Immigrants, May Have Been Key Motivator of Donald Trump’s Voters While Donald Trump’s candidacy was identified most often with fighting illegal immigration, a deeper look into the election results suggests the real fuel behind his victory may have come more from his stand against free-trade agreements, writes Gerald F. Seib. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Obama, Trump Talk Policy Issues in First Meeting Donald Trump and President Obama met for the first time at the White House. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Trump’s Nafta Plan Would Confront Globalized Auto Industry The tens of thousands of parts that make up a vehicle often come from multiple producers in different countries and travel back and forth across borders several times. President-elect Trump has vowed to renegotiate the 1994 trade pact. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		ADVERTISEMENT  
       


ELECTION AFTERMATH

Out of the wreckage of the election losses, the party’s left wing is angling for an overhaul of the Democratic National Committee and its leadership to make it more progressive and in tune with grass-roots activists.
MORE POLITICS

		Trump Shuffles Transition Team, Making Pence Chairman Nov. 11, 2016
		Clinton Struggled to Win Over Some Women Voters Nov. 11, 2016
		Vandalism, Arrests Follow Protests Against President-elect Trump Nov. 10, 2016
		Trump, Obama Begin Transition Nov. 10, 2016
Many progressive groups have rallied behind Mr. Ellison, although he hasn't formally announced his bid for DNC chairman. He said in a Thursday night conference call with progressive activists that he would make an announcement on Monday.
Mr. Ellison, an African-American Muslim, serves as co-chairman of the House Progressive Caucus and was an early backer of Mr. Sanders. He was first elected in 2006.  Mr. Schumer’s endorsement was first reported by Politico.
The heavyweight endorsement and support of the progressive activists will make him a formidable candidate for the job. Also in the running is former DNC chairman Howard Dean, who said in a Thursday Twitter message that the party needs “organization and focus on the young” as well as a strategy for competing in all 50 states.
“I am in for chairman again,” he wrote.
The new chairman, who will succeed interim chair Donna Brazile,will be chosen at the next meeting of the DNC early next year.
Progressive critics of the party establishment, including Sanders supporters, have been arguing that the DNC has become too much of a fundraising machine that is not connecting with rank-and-file voters, and that contributed to the party’s failure in the election. They have argued that the DNC should be more focused on grass-roots organizing.
Asked about the DNC role in Thursday night’s conference call, Mr. Ellison said, “The key here has got to be a turnout-based, grass-roots based Democratic Party that uses relationship building, one on one.’’

Mr. Schumer seemed to embrace that view of the DNC’s changing role in backing Mr. Ellison.
“Without a Democratic White House, Schumer’s view is the DNC is where grass-roots organizing in sync with legislative battles should be organized,’’ said Schumer spokesman Matt House.

Brad Pitt Cleared of Allegations of Child Abuse on Private Jet
by ANDREW BLANKSTEIN
		SHARE
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
The Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services has cleared actor Brad Pitt of allegations of physical abuse in connection with an incident aboard a private jet in September, multiple sources familiar with the investigations told NBC News Wednesday.
The sources said the allegations were not substantiated after interviews with family members — including the children — and a review of the facts in the case, a process which can take weeks.
Related: Child Abuse Claim Triggers Routine Investigation of Brad Pitt
One source added that the DCFS findings in relation to the incident does not mean the family is without need for treatment guided by mandated reporters of child abuse and neglect.
A DCFS spokesman told NBC News that the agency is prohibited by state law from breaching confidentiality by commenting on cases or individuals involved in them.
"Confidentiality laws exist to spare families undue public attention while they seek to resolve sensitive family issues," Neil J. Zanville said in a statement. "During the course of a child abuse investigation, we work closely with families to address those issues that may negatively impact child safety and well-being."
The investigation stemmed from an incident in September aboard a private plane carrying Pitt, Angelina Jolie and their children en route from Europe to Los Angeles that made a refueling stop in Minnesota.
The FBI is also involved in the case but has not commented publicly on whether their evaluation of the facts in the case has been completed.
Citing irreconcilable differences, Jolie has filed for divorce against Pitt. She is seeking physical custody of the children — Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and 8-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox — with joint legal custody and visitation for Pitt. 

Bowing to Pressure, Facebook Backtracks on Racial Profiling in Ads
by DAKSHAYANI SHANKAR
		SHARE
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
		  
Facebook announced Friday that it would be disabling the controversial "Ethnic Affinity" tool that allowed advertisers to exclude certain ethnic groups from target audiences.
"We will disable the use of ethnic affinity marketing for ads that we identify as offering housing, employment or credit," wrote Facebook's chief privacy officer, Erin Egan, in a post.
Facebook said it had worked with civil rights organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union and would update the language in its advertising policies to make it more explicit that discrimination by advertisers will not be tolerated, Egan said.
Facebook came under harsh scrutiny on earlier this month after a report emerged that showed the social network was offering advertisers ways of excluding specific races by checking a category it called "Ethnic Affinity." Advertisers could choose to exclude African Americans, Asian Americans and Hispanic Americans on the self-service advertising portal, as investigated by Pro Publica.

Pro Publica created an ad to find out how the self-service ad portal's "Ethnic Affinity" option works Pro Publica / Facebook
The Congressional Black Caucus immediately reacted and wrote a letter to Facebook Founder, Mark Zuckerberg, "This is in direct violation of the Fair Housing Act of 1968, and it is our strong desire to see Facebook address this issue immediately."
The Fair Housing Act prohibits the printing and publication of "notices, statements and advertisements" that indicate "discrimination or limitation" to races, and the U.S. Department of Justice increased the maximum violation fine to $150,000 in 2014.
"To the extent that Facebook has created a filter that enables advertisers who use its platform to exclude users from seeing, reading, or hearing about offers of housing on the basis of race... it is operating in violation of the federal Fair Housing Act," civil rights lawyer John Relman confirmed to NBC News.
Relman advised Facebook to re-think the tool immediately to avoid lawsuits from potential Facebook users who could realize they were "injured" by the tool.
However, Facebook denied the illegal practice and said people were misconstruing the meaning of "Ethnic Affinity."
"For example, some audiences might click on Spanish-language ads for a World Cup sponsorship, versus other audiences that might click more on the same ads in English," a spokesperson said. "So the sponsor might run one campaign in English that excludes the Hispanic affinity group to see how well the campaign performs against running that ad campaign in Spanish. This is a common practice in the industry."
However, "What makes the exclude feature seem provocative in Facebook's ad options is that there are only options to exclude certain 'ethnic affinities,'" said Niklas Myhr, assistant professor of marketing at Chapman University. "Nowhere can you specifically exclude the Caucasian ethnic affinity," he noted.
Ultimately, it's the price we pay for handing over our data to Facebook in the first place, suggested Myhr.
"Some people are still caught by surprise and are upset that Facebook is categorizing you as a potential ad target based on your "likes" or demographic information that you volunteered when signing up — but as long as you don't pay for using Facebook, you basically should consider yourself part of the product that Facebook is selling to advertisers."


People's birth years can affect their risk of catching certain strains of influenza — probably because their first case of flu somehow sets their immune system, researchers reported Thursday.
Their findings could be good news for what scientists predict about the risk of a killer flu pandemic, and they could also help researchers find better flu vaccines, the researchers said.

A new study explains why children and young adults are more likely to be infected with H5N1, shown here, while H7N9 disproportionately affects older adults. CYNTHIA GOLDSMITH / UCLA
"Our work implies that we have never seen a true 'virgin soil' influenza pandemic," the team wrote in their report, published in the journal Science. "Virgin soil" means a population that has no immunity at all to a new infection.
The teams were looking at the puzzling characteristics of two strains of bird flu that keep popping up in people: the H5N1 and H7N9 avian influenza viruses.
They've been spilling over into people for years and scaring scientists who see the potential for a pandemic of flu that could kill tens or even hundreds of millions of people. But this hasn't happened yet.
And, oddly, while H5N1 has hit young people and children especially hard, H7N9 seems to attack older people.
“"ROUGHLY HALF OF THE PEOPLE ARE QUITE WELL-PROTECTED AGAINST ONE OF THESE POTENTIAL PANDEMIC VIRUSES BUT NOT THE OTHER."”
H5N1 has infected 856 people since 2003 and killed 452 of them, WHO reports. H7N9 has infected 452 people and killed 124 of them, according to the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota.
The team at the University of Arizona and the University of California Los Angeles dove into the numbers, examining the reports of each case, who was affected and how severely.
Related: Where has H5N1 Been, Anyway?
They found an almost startling link with birth year.
"It's ridiculously predictive," said Michael Worobey, an expert in viral genetics at the University of Arizona.
Worobey thinks he knows why. Other research suggests that early infections "imprint" the body's immune system. It makes sense — the human immune system makes cells and antibodies that "learn" to recognize and react more quickly to microbial invaders the next time they infect someone.
Worobey has also found that influenza viruses that commonly infect people can be categorized into two groups. Group 1 consists of subtypes H1, H2, and avian H5, while group 2 includes seasonal H3 and avian H7.
Related: What's in a Flu Name?
Influenza A viruses all are named for two proteins found on their surfaces: hemagglutinin (the H in a flu name) and neuraminidase (the N in a flu name). Thus flu strains get names such as H5N1 or H1N1 or H3N2. So human H1N1, H2N2 and the H5N1 bird flu virus are all related in Group 1, while the H3N2 seasonal flu virus is related to the H7N9 bird flu strain.
Play

		Facebook 
		Twitter 
		Google Plus 
		Embed 
 Can You Catch Bird Flu? 0:42
Every few decades, the predominant flu strain changes. So the H1N1 flu strain that killed tens of millions of people in 1918 hung around infecting people until 1957, when a pandemic of H2N2 flu swept the world and took over. Then H2N2 predominated until 1968, when the H3N2 "Hong Kong" flu took over.
Most recently, the H1N1 "swine flu" caused a minor pandemic in 2009. Now H1N1 and H3N2 both regularly circulate as seasonal flu viruses.
What Worobey and colleagues found was that people born in 1968 and later are less likely to be made severely ill by H7N9. They believe this is because the first flu strain that would have infected them would have been H3N2, which is in the same group as H7N9.
Related: Canadian Woman Infected With H7N9 Flu
And people born before 1968 are less likely to die or be made severely ill by H5N1, because their first flu infection would have been an H1N1 or H2N2 strain.
"Roughly half of the people are quite well-protected against one of these potential pandemic viruses but not the other," Worobey said.
"Our findings show clearly that this 'childhood imprinting' gives strong protection against severe infection or death from two major strains of avian influenza," added James Lloyd-Smith, a UCLA professor of evolutionary biology who worked on the study. "These results will help us quantify the risk of particular emerging influenza viruses sparking a major outbreak."
“"THIS IS REALLY THE FIRST EVIDENCE OUT IN THE REAL WORLD THAT THIS KIND OF CROSS-PROTECTION IS POSSIBLE."”
"It's imprinting. Not the virus, not the behavior of people, but being exposed to different viruses at an early age," Worobey said.
Flu strains mutate all the time, which is why people need a fresh flu shot every year. But Worobey and other researchers say there are unchanging, or "conserved" parts of the flu virus on the "stem" of the mushroom-shaped hemagglutinin structure that the human immune system can recognize.
It obviously does not provide perfect protection, but enough to protect most people with this immune imprinting from the most severe disease, he said.
"It is an extra barrier that is probably protecting us from even more frequent influenza pandemics," he said.
More importantly, later flu infections do not seem to alter this mechanism, although this theory needs testing.
The researchers cannot say whether regular flu vaccination affects this "imprinting" effect. People are now encouraged to get annual flu vaccines starting as infants, and they get a cocktail of vaccines that protect against both the Group 1 H1N1 and Group 2 H3N2 viruses.
They also cannot say whether peoples' susceptibility to seasonal flu is affected by imprinting. Flu is so very common that it will be hard to say which virus first infected someone and then follow them through life to see which strains make them sicker.
But it might be possible to use the findings to make better vaccines, Worobey said.
"This is really the first evidence out in the real world that this kind of cross-protection is possible," Worobey said. 


Dylan’s 1966 Tapes Find a Direction Home
By BEN SISARIONOV. 10, 2016
Continue reading the main story
Share This Page
		Share 
		Tweet 
		Pin 
		Email 
		More 
		Save 

 
CULTURE By Video by SONY LEGACY 12:31
Bob Dylan On Tour in 1966
Video
Bob Dylan On Tour in 1966
A new short film made to accompany the release of the boxed set “Bob Dylan: The 1966 Live Recordings” features previously unseen footage of the tour, onstage and off, shot by D.A. Pennebaker. By Video by SONY LEGACY on 
Publish Date
November 10, 2016. . Watch in Times Video »
		 Embed
		Share Tweet 
THAT’S it — that sounds like the original,” Richard Alderson said, with a knowing nod.
Sitting in his living room in the West Village, Mr. Alderson was cranking up Bob Dylan’s “Just Like Tom Thumb’s Blues” as recorded in Liverpool, England, on May 14, 1966, in a version never released before: raw and clear, direct from the tapes that Mr. Alderson made as the live-sound engineer for Mr. Dylan’s 1966 tour.
That tour, on which Mr. Dylan was backed up by musicians who became the Band, has attained almost mythic status as a tableau of confrontation, as Mr. Dylan’s folk fans rejected his embrace of electric rock ’n’ roll. In its most famous incident, an audience member in Manchester, England, blurted out, “Judas!” (In response, Mr. Dylan told his band to “play loud” — adding an expletive that made the instruction spiteful, joyous or both.)
Photo


Bob Dylan on his historic 1966 tour of Britain and Australia, the focus of a 36-CD boxed set from Columbia/Legacy. 
Credit
D.A. Pennabaker
Some of these shows have long circulated in bootleg versions. But on Friday, Columbia/Legacy will release every known recording from the tour as a 36-CD boxed set, “Bob Dylan: The 1966 Live Recordings,” most of which have never been heard in any form. It is a monumental addition to the corpus just as Mr. Dylan has been named the winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature.
The new boxed set is the latest archival release from Mr. Dylan, after “The Basement Tapes Complete” (six CDs) and “The Cutting Edge 1965-1966” (up to 18 CDs), that have been gobbled up by fans. For Mr. Dylan, there may also be a more prosaic motivation for the release: to secure European copyright protection on the recordings. (The works are eligible if released before they’re 50 years old.)
As the sound man, Mr. Alderson had a front-row seat on the historic tour. In an interview with The New York Times, and in a short film made by the record company, he reminisced about the demands of the job and the perplexing crowd reactions. The video includes previously unseen footage of the tour, onstage and off, shot by D. A. Pennebaker, who directed the film “Dont Look Back,” about Mr. Dylan’s 1965 tour.
Photo


Boxes of master audiotapes from 1966. 
Credit
D.A. Pennabaker
A particular challenge of the 1966 tour, Mr. Alderson said, was building a sound system at a time when most theaters were ill equipped for a loud, amplified band.
“There was kind of no precedent for it,” Mr. Alderson, now 79, said as a terrier puppy yipped at his heels, and a pile of Dylan bootlegs sat on the coffee table for comparison.
The recordings trace Mr. Dylan’s tour through the United States, Australia, Britain and Europe, repeating the same two-part set with virtually no changes. In the first, acoustic half, he sang incantatory versions of “Visions of Johanna” and “Desolation Row”; for the second half, the entire band’s full-throttled takes on “Like a Rolling Stone” do not always drown out the jeers.
Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter
Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics. Coming soon.

Sign Up

Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.


		SEE SAMPLE PRIVACY POLICY
Even in the exhaustively documented field of Dylan studies, Mr. Alderson has been nearly lost in plain sight. He ran the tape machine for Mr. Dylan’s shows at the Gaslight Cafe in 1962 but was uncredited on the official release of those recordings in 2005. He also appears, unidentified, in “No Direction Home,” a documentary by Martin Scorsese that was also released that year. His name is barely in the Dylan history books (of which there are many).
“Nobody really wants to give me any credit,” Mr. Alderson said. “When I brought up the fact that I’m in the Scorsese film — I’m on screen with Dylan in some of the most important parts — the response was, ‘We thought it was some other Richard.’”
Mr. Alderson’s own career offers some explanation for the lapse. He was hired for the 1966 Dylan tour after recording Nina Simone at Carnegie Hall and building a live sound system for Harry Belafonte. After the tour ended, Mr. Dylan had a motorcycle accident and withdrew; Mr. Alderson ran his own studio — recording avant-garde jazz and rock bands like the Fugs — before burning out in 1969 and leaving for Mexico.
Photo


Richard Alderson, the sound engineer who recorded the performances on Mr. Dylan’s 1966 tour.
Credit
Fred R. Conrad for The New York Times
“I stayed in Mexico the entire time that Nixon was president,” Mr. Alderson said. “I completely lost touch with the New York recording scene.”
The audiotapes from the Dylan tour were made to accompany film footage being shot of the shows, some of which were used for the famously disjointed film “Eat the Document.”
Once the tour ended, Mr. Alderson turned over the tapes, which sat in refrigerated storage for five decades in Mr. Dylan’s extensive archives. Mr. Alderson reconnected with the Dylan circle over the last year as the boxed set came together, but his involvement was minimal. Until an interview with The Times, he had not heard the recordings in 50 years.
Photo


Richard Alderson, left, with Bob Dylan on tour in 1966. 
Credit
D.A. Pennabaker
Speaking now, Mr. Alderson is still a little cranky but is clearly thrilled by the belated attention. He said that working with Mr. Dylan in 1966 was “more like working with a friend,” even though the video captures his old client bossing him around in no uncertain terms. And he doesn’t overthink the magic that went into capturing the tour on tape.
“You put good microphones up in front of good music,” Mr. Alderson says in the video, “and it sounds good.”
He was also careful to note his gratitude to Sony Music, the parent company of Columbia/Legacy, and to the Dylan camp for including his name in the official credits: “Mixing board tapes recorded by Richard Alderson.”


Spotify patches 'data gobbling' glitch
		5 hours ago  From the section Technology
Share

Image copyright
SPOTIFY
Music service Spotify is rolling out a fix to stop its desktop application repeatedly writing huge amounts of junk data to computer users' hard drives.
Reporters from new site Ars Technica found Spotify was writing up to 10GB of data an hour to their computers.
Unnecessarily writing and rewriting data to some types of computer hard drive can shorten their life.
Spotify said it was aware of the issue and was taking steps to address it in its latest version.
The issue was more likely to be problematic for people using a solid-state hard drive (SSD) in their device.
Data on SSDs can be read and rewritten a limited number of times before the drive begins to fail.
A large volume of unnecessary activity by the Spotify player could therefore bring about a drive's failure earlier than expected.
'Lazy coding'
Ars Technica found that Spotify wrote and rewrote up to 700GB of data - the equivalent of more than 100 movies - over a 24 hour period.
Many people shared their concerns on social news site Reddit, highlighting that the app even rewrote the data while it was idle and no music was being streamed.
Ken Munro, from cybersecurity firm Pen Test Partners, said the problem was "either an error or lazy coding", but said more modern SSDs could tolerate more data-writing cycles.
"SSD 'wear' used to be a very significant issue when they first emerged," he told the BBC.
"Since then, manufacturers have made significant advances in reducing this and extending lifespans.
"It would take a long while to wear out an SSD nowadays, but that doesn't really excuse the Spotify bug!"
The problem affected people using the app on Windows, Linux and Mac OS.
Spotify said: "We've seen some questions in our community around the amount of written data using the Spotify client on desktop.
"These have been reviewed and any potential concerns have now been addressed in version 1.0.42, currently rolling out to all users."


Neymar Scores 50th Goal in Brazil’s Rout of Argentina
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSNOV. 11, 2016
Continue reading the main story
Share This Page
		Share 
		Tweet 
		Email 
		More 
		Save 
Photo


Colombia’s Edwin Cardona (21) and Chile’s Enzo Roco during World Cup qualifying.
Credit
Fernando Vergara/Associated Press
Neymar scored his 50th international goal as host Brazil thrashed Argentina, 3-0, in their 2018 World Cup qualifying duel on Thursday.
Neymar reached the 50-goal mark in 74 games as Brazil recorded its fifth consecutive victory under it new coach, Tite, to remain on top of South America’s qualification table.
Philippe Coutinho and Paulinho also scored as the Brazilians made a triumphant return to Mineirão Stadium, scene of their humiliating 7-1 loss against Germany in a 2014 World Cup semifinal.
Brazil now leads the 10-team round-robin competition with 24 points after 11 games. Argentina is in sixth place over all, one spot outside the qualifying positions for the finals in Russia.
Continue reading the main story
Advertisement
Continue reading the main story


Brazil powered into a 2-0 lead in the first half after two wonderfully worked goals from Coutinho and Neymar.
The Argentines created the first chance when Lucas Biglia’s shot from outside the penalty area was saved by Brazil goalkeeper Alisson in the 23rd minute.
AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
CHILE GOALKEEPER INJURED IN DRAW Before leaving the game with a leg injury, Claudio Bravo was the hero as Chile ground out a hard-fought 0-0 draw in its 2018 World Cup qualifier against host Colombia.
Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.

Sign Up

Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.


		SEE SAMPLE PRIVACY POLICY
Bravo made two superb first-half saves as Chile, the Copa América champion, dug in for a vital point in sweltering conditions in Barranquilla, Colombia. But Bravo’s display was soured by what looked like a pulled muscle in the second half, forcing him to be replaced by Johnny Herrera in the 65th minute.
Colombia brought on the veteran striker Radamel Falcao at the start of the second half but he was unable to break the deadlock.
The tie left Colombia with 18 points after 11 games in South America’s qualifying race; Chile had 17 points. AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
SOUNDERS ROOKIE RECEIVES HONOR Seattle Sounders forward Jordan Morris was named Major League Soccer’s Rookie of the Year after scoring 12 goals, tying for the second-most goals by an M.L.S. newcomer. Orlando City’s Cyle Larin set the mark with 17 in 2015.
Morris beat Philadelphia Union defender Keegan Rosenberry and New York City F.C. forward Jack Harrison for the honor.
Morris played a key role in Seattle’s run to the M.L.S. playoffs, and he has started all three of its postseason matches as it booked a berth in the Western Conference finals.
“We think he has been as impactful in his first season as any rookie in the history of the league,” Sounders General Manager Garth Lagerway said of Morris, who made his debut with the United States’ national team in 2015 when he was still playing in college.
Morris signed with the Sounders in January 2016 and made his starting debut on March 6.
After Morris strained a hamstring in the Sounders’ playoff game at Dallas on Sunday, he was removed from the United States’ roster for Friday’s World Cup qualifier against Mexico. It was not yet known if he would be available when the Sounders host the Colorado Rapids in the first leg of the Western Conference Championship on Nov. 22. AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE
HOCKEY
Lightning Breeze Past Islanders
Steven Stamkos had a goal and two assists, Andrei Vasilevskiy made 31 saves and the Tampa Bay Lightning beat the Islanders, 4-1, in Tampa, Fla.
Nikita Kucherov, Tyler Johnson and Brian Boyle also scored for the Lightning, who have outscored the Islanders by 10-2 in winning the first two games of the season series.
The Islanders got a goal from Andrew Ladd.
Stamkos opened the scoring by beating Jaroslav Halak from the left circle during a power play 8 minutes 3 seconds into the game. Stamkos has 111 career power-play goals with Tampa Bay, one shy of Vincent Lecavalier’s team record.
FOOTBALL
Duke Stuns No. 15 North Carolina
Quarterback Daniel Jones ran for two touchdowns and threw for another to help Duke upset No. 15 North Carolina, 28-27, in Durham, N.C.
Jones, a redshirt freshman, gave the defense fits all night with his mobility for the Blue Devils, who are 4-6 over all and 1-5 in the Atlantic Coast Conference. He ran for 94 yards as part of a ground game that kept moving the chains against the Tar Heels (7-3, 5-2), who were No. 17 in the College Football Playoff rankings.
Shaun Wilson ran for a game-high 107 yards and a touchdown as Duke finished with 227 rushing yards and converted 10 of 17 third-down chances.
BROWNS’ SEASON-LONG SKID CONTINUES Joe Flacco threw three touchdown passes, and the host Baltimore Ravens beat Cleveland, 28-7, to leave the winless Browns at a low point in franchise history.
Baltimore trailed by 7-3 late in the second quarter before gaining control during a third quarter in which Flacco went 10 for 12 with two scores. The Ravens (5-4) have won two in a row following a four-game losing streak. Baltimore is the only team in the A.F.C. North above .500.
Cleveland (0-10) has opened a season with 10 consecutive losses for the first time since joining the N.F.L. in 1950.
The loss left Cleveland’s all-time record at 461-461-10. The Browns have never been below .500.
SEATTLE’S SHERMAN FINED FOR HIT Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman confirmed that he was fined by the N.F.L. for his hit on Buffalo kicker Dan Carpenter in Monday night’s game against the Bills.
Sherman said the league’s explanation made it nearly impossible for him to appeal the $9,115 fine. Sherman said the league’s justification in its letter to him was that his hit on Carpenter as he attempted to block a field-goal attempt at the end of the first half came after the whistle was blown.
Sherman said he would not appeal the fine.
“It would be a long, thoughtless process,” Sherman said. “Their logic is impeccable so there’s not really a fight. I’m still fine with everything.”
Sherman was not penalized for unnecessary roughness on the play. He was flagged for being offside, but the referee Walt Anderson’s said after the game that he did not believe the contact was excessive enough to warrant a penalty.
The N.F.L.’s head of officiating, Dean Blandino, later said that Anderson’s interpretation was incorrect and that Sherman should have received a personal foul on the play, an interpretation that Seattle Coach Pete Carroll agreed with.
PRO BASKETBALL
Pelicans Capture Their First Win
Anthony Davis hit two free throws with 12 seconds left and scored 32 points, and the New Orleans Pelicans got their first victory after losing their first eight games by beating the Bucks, 112-106, in Milwaukee.
The Philadelphia 76ers (0-7) are the only remaining winless team in the N.B.A.
Jabari Parker scored a season-high 33 points for Milwaukee, which lost its second straight game to a team that was winless.
In their last game Sunday, the Bucks fell by 86-75 in overtime to Dallas, which was 0-5 coming into that game.
CAVALIERS SALUTED AT THE WHITE HOUSE You learn a lot about people when they are down, President Barack Obama declared Thursday, and he was not talking about an election. Obama saluted the N.B.A.’s Cleveland Cavaliers for rallying from behind to defeat the Golden State Warriors and end a Cleveland pro sports title drought stretching back to 1964.
Obama honored the Cavaliers on the South Lawn of the White House, squeezing in another sports champion before he leaves office. He opened by saying: “That’s right. I said world champion and Cleveland in the same sentence.”
Cleveland came back from a three-games-to-one deficit to win the championship against a Warriors team that had set an N.B.A. record for most victories during a regular season.
“The first team in history to dig themselves out of a hole like that,” Obama said. “The comeback was remarkable, and you learn about people when they’re down.”


Crowds Line Up at India’s Banks to Exchange Banned Rupee Notes
By ELLEN BARRY and SUHASINI RAJNOV. 10, 2016
Continue reading the main story
Share This Page
		Share 
		Tweet 
		Email 
		More 
		Save 
50

Video
Indians Stressed Over Currency Ban
Indians wait in long bank lines to exchange their currency after the government announced on Tuesday that it will withdraw 500 and 1,000 rupee notes from circulation. By NEETI UPADHYE on 
Publish Date
November 10, 2016. Photo by Rajanish Kakade/Associated Press. Watch in Times Video »
		 Embed
		Share Tweet 
NEW DELHI — Thousands of security forces were deployed on Thursday to keep the peace at India’s banks, where crowds of people had formed jittery, snaking lines in the early morning, desperate to exchange now-useless currency notes.
In a surprise move on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modiwithdrew 500- and 1,000-rupee bills from circulation, aiming to shrink the country’s vast, informal “black” economy. The cash market, which by some estimates amounts to 30 percent of the gross domestic product, is used by many Indians to avoid paying taxes and to pay bribes.
For the next two weeks, citizens will be able to exchange 4,000 rupees a day, or about $60. But they will have difficulty converting large cash holdings because they will have to declare them to the tax authorities. Money that cannot be exchanged will be, as officials put it, “extinguished.”
The plan, top secret until Mr. Modi’s announcement, was hailed by financial analysts as bold and potentially transformational for India. It is also a high-stakes experiment: Though other Indian leaders have withdrawn currency notes, none have reduced the country’s supply of cash so drastically or so abruptly. The two bills being withdrawn make up 80 percent of the cash in circulation.
Many people on the street this week said they were stunned and angry. Brawls broke out in lines outside banks, where many had to stand for hours, uncertain whether the stockpile of bills would run out.
“I am in a very foul mood, and for business, this government is not good at all,” said Ayush Singhal, 26, a trader in packing tape, whose shop was all but deserted after the currency was withdrawn. The Old Delhi wholesale market, one of the largest in Asia, operates almost entirely on a cash basis, Mr. Singhal said.
“We have to figure out some other way of conducting business,” Mr. Singhal said, his face grave. “For now, I am at a loss for words.”
Poor migrants to the city said the sudden move had stranded them without enough money to eat.
Umeshwar Prasad Rao, a farmer, had traveled hundreds of miles to New Delhi so that his daughter could have an operation, carrying his life savings of 10,000 rupees in 500-rupee notes.
Because he did not have a government identification card, Mr. Rao could not exchange the money for usable notes. By midday on Thursday his family had consumed nothing but tea. Scores of families sprawled on the sidewalk around the hospital, with similar complaints.
Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition
Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning.

Sign Up

Receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.


		SEE SAMPLE PRIVACY POLICY
“I am at my wits’ end,” Mr. Rao said. He was hoping to get food from a charity. “Otherwise, we will be fasting,” he said.
The people who help others unload “black money” were doing a booming business. Gold merchants saw the price for 10 ounces of gold nearly double, so eager were customers to dispose of their large bills.
Nishant Verma, who runs a family jewelry shop, kept his doors open until 1 a.m. two nights in a row to accommodate what he called a “mad rush.”
But the busiest of all were money launderers — small-timers who converted stacks of 1,000-rupee bills to 100-rupee notes for a 500-rupee fee; and larger-scale cash-on-hand firms, which provide companies with cash for undeclared payments, or bribes, registering the sum as a loan or an advance.
Other businesses might backdate the receipts, suggesting that the invalid bills were exchanged before Mr. Modi’s announcement, said Ajay Shah, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “There is infinite ingenuity out there,” he said.
Hospitals and crematories, which are exempted from the ban, may also turn a profit by exchanging large numbers of bills for a fee. Laborers also made money on Thursday by standing in lines at banks, saving the places of more wealthy people who preferred to use their time in other ways.
Mr. Modi had warned that the public might suffer “temporary hardships” during the period when the now-invalid bills are exchanged for new ones. Businesses likely to lose the most are real estate agencies, doctors’ offices and other professionals who demand cash transactions.
Experts said a period of disruption was a small price to pay to drain the informal economy. Global Financial Integrity, a Washington policy group, has estimated that India lost $344 billion in illicit outflows of money in the decade leading up to 2011.
As the week progressed, though, some analysts began to express worry that the abrupt monetary shock would ripple through the economy, weakening consumer demand.
50
COMMENTS
Ila Patnaik, an economist, warned in an editorial in the Indian Express newspaper that payments are now likely to be held up and purchases likely to be postponed, potentially damaging the economy in 2016 and 2017.
“As long as things are going fine, we tend to ignore money,” she wrote. “But when money is disrupted, this imposes a substantial disruption upon the working of the economy.”


Leonard Cohen: Stars pay tribute to influential singer
		2 hours ago  From the section Entertainment & Arts
Share

Image copyright
REDFERNS
Image caption
Cohen's fans stretch back many decades
Musicians, authors and politicians have paid tribute to singer Leonard Cohen following his death at the age of 82.
Sir Elton John said he was "a giant of a man and a brilliant songwriter", while Boy George called him a "poignant force of energy".
Russell Crowe thanked the Hallelujah songwriter for "the perspective, the wry smiles and the truth".
JK Rowling tweeted the singer's lyrics: "There is a crack in everything, That's how the light gets in."
Actress Mia Farrow and Hamilton creator Lin-Manuel Miranda were among others to quote the songwriter's lyrics on Twitter, while Carole King tweeted her respectswith "RIP".
		Leonard Cohen dies aged 82
		Obituary: Leonard Cohen
		Leonard Cohen's life in pictures
		Six of the best Leonard Cohen covers
Peter Gabriel said Cohen's "unique voice painted unforgettable pictures" and that "there is a big hole where he stood".
"Anyone looking at an empty page trying to write a song lyric sits in the shadow of the mountain that was Leonard Cohen," he wrote.
"Another magical voice stilled," wrote Bette Midler, while Justin Timberlake said Cohen had "a spirit and soul beyond compare".
In a lengthy tribute, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Cohen had "managed to reach the highest of artistic achievement".
"His ability to conjure the vast array of human emotion made him one of the most influential and enduring musicians ever."
Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu also paid tribute, describing him as "a great creator" and "a talented artist".
An impromptu vigil has been held outside the singer's Montreal home, with fans lighting candles and leaving messages and flowers.

Image copyright
AP
Image caption
Tributes have been left at Cohen's home in Montreal
Dire Straits' Mark Knopfler thanked Cohen "for so many years of music", while Canadian singer Alanis Morissette marked his passing with a crying face emoji.
British singers Lily Allen and Paloma Faith also paid tribute, with the latter describing his death as "a tragic loss".
"As if the week could get any worse," tweeted Allen, one of a number of celebrities to allude to this week's election results in America.
US comedian Sarah Silverman said his death would make people "remember songs like Come Healing which is a good one for these days".
Duran Duran singer Simon Le Bon wrote: "Spent a good deal of my early teens, just me & #LeonardCohen alone together in my suburban bedroom. It was a gentle & fulfilling love affair."
Alexandra Burke, whose cover version of Cohen's Hallelujah was the Christmas number one after she won The X Factor in 2008, said: "Leonard Cohen, a lyrical legend, a man who will continue to inspire. A voice that will always live on. Thank you for the memories."
Nick Cave, who covered Cohen's Avalanche on his 1984 album From Her to Eternity, said he was "the greatest songwriter of them all - utterly unique and impossible to imitate, no matter how hard we tried".
'Musical touchstone'
Neil Portnow, chief executive of the Recording Academy, which celebrates music through the Grammy Awards, described Cohen as "one of the most revered pop poets and a musical touchstone for many songwriters".
"His extraordinary talent had a profound impact on countless singers and songwriters, as well as the wider culture," he added.
"Unmatched in his creativity, insight and crippling candour, Leonard Cohen was a true visionary whose voice will be sorely missed," Cohen's manager Robert Kory told Rolling Stone.
"He leaves behind a legacy of work that will bring insight, inspiration and healing for generations to come."
BBC DJ Mark Radcliffe said Cohen had been "incredible to watch" when he performed at the Glastonbury Festival in 2008.
"There were 70,000 people in front of that stage but he made it feel like a tiny club," he recalled.
Like the late David Bowie, he went on, Cohen had "made great music right to the end with the enigma intact."
Jump media player
Media player help

Out of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.

Media caption
Hallelujah producer John Lissauer tells Radio 4's Today programme how the album was almost never released
Producer John Lissauer, who worked with Cohen on such albums as New Skin for the Old Ceremony and Various Positions, said he had been "an iconic figure."
"He was so consistent in his devotion to the craft and his devotion to recording and performing," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
Appearing on the same programme, former chancellor Lord Darling said seeing Cohen play a gig in London had proved uplifting as he coped with the financial crisis.
"I went along prepared to be even more gloom-filled than I was feeling in the summer of 2008 and actually I came out of it very cheered up," he told the BBC earlier.
"It's no surprise he inspired so many people."

Image copyright
@IAMJHUD
Singer Jennifer Hudson thanked Cohen for his "dedication to music", accompanying her Twitter post with footage of a performance of Hallelujah she gave in 2014.
Yusuf, the artist formerly known as Cat Stevens, said Cohen's death had "once again exposed... the fragileness of life".
Canadian author Margaret Atwood said his death had made her "very sad", sentiments echoed by Hobbit actor Luke Evans.
'Cohen set the standard'
Other actors to have paid their respects include Annette Bening, who described Cohen as "the most inspiring performer" and "a genius".
Antonio Banderas called him "a great poet", while Kiefer Sutherland described his countryman as "a brilliant Canadian artist".
Appearing on the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire show, music critic Neil McCormick described Cohen as "an Old Testament poet combined with a hard-boiled comedian".
"I've never met someone who took much care with his phrasing and words," he said. "He could say the darkest things about the human condition, but lace it with a humour that made it palatable."
Singer Frank Turner, appearing on the same programme, likened Cohen's songs to psalms - "perfect creations that felt like he had discovered them rather than wrote them."
"He sets a standard for all songwriters everywhere," Turner continued. "He wrote words that will stand the test of time and give the rest of us something to aspire to."

