Schumer, Liberal Leaders Rally Behind Rep. Ellison for DNC Chair
After election losses, the party’s left wing is angling for an overhaul


ENLARGE
Rep. Keith Ellison speaking during a news conference in May about Islamophobia at the National Press Club in Washington PHOTO: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/GETTY IMAGES
By JANET HOOK
Nov. 11, 2016 10:02 a.m. ET

63 COMMENTS
Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York, who is in line to become senior Democrat in the Senate, is throwing his weight behind a progressive leader, Rep. Keith Ellison of Minnesota, to be the next head of the Democratic National Committee, a spokesman said.
Mr. Schumer joins Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, whose Democratic primary challenge to Hillary Clinton energized progressives disenchanted with her as the establishment choice, and liberal leaders in backing Mr. Ellison.
Mr. Ellison has also won praise from Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a liberal icon, who said Thursday night on MSNBC that he would make a “terrific DNC chair.”

–– ADVERTISEMENT ––





The endorsements from those influential Democrats come at a time when the party is wrestling with an identity crisis and a leadership vacuum in the wake of the unexpected defeat of Hillary Clinton and the party’s failure to win control of the Senate.
		
		Trump’s Transition Team Works to Form Cabinet The president-elect’s transition team raced to form his cabinet, as more names were floated for some of the biggest jobs in the administration. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Trump Faces Battle to Undo Iran Nuclear Deal Donald Trump could pull the U.S. out of the nuclear deal with Iran once in office, but convincing powers in Europe and Russia to follow would be a challenge. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Trump’s Point Man on Financial Regulation: A Former Regulator Who Favors a Light Touch As an SEC commissioner, Paul Atkins protested large fines against companies and sweeping stock-trading requirements. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		ADVERTISEMENT  
		
		Trade, Not Immigrants, May Have Been Key Motivator of Donald Trump’s Voters While Donald Trump’s candidacy was identified most often with fighting illegal immigration, a deeper look into the election results suggests the real fuel behind his victory may have come more from his stand against free-trade agreements, writes Gerald F. Seib. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Obama, Trump Talk Policy Issues in First Meeting Donald Trump and President Obama met for the first time at the White House. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		Trump’s Nafta Plan Would Confront Globalized Auto Industry The tens of thousands of parts that make up a vehicle often come from multiple producers in different countries and travel back and forth across borders several times. President-elect Trump has vowed to renegotiate the 1994 trade pact. 
		CLICK TO READ STORY  
		
		ADVERTISEMENT  
       


ELECTION AFTERMATH

Out of the wreckage of the election losses, the party’s left wing is angling for an overhaul of the Democratic National Committee and its leadership to make it more progressive and in tune with grass-roots activists.
MORE POLITICS

		Trump Shuffles Transition Team, Making Pence Chairman Nov. 11, 2016
		Clinton Struggled to Win Over Some Women Voters Nov. 11, 2016
		Vandalism, Arrests Follow Protests Against President-elect Trump Nov. 10, 2016
		Trump, Obama Begin Transition Nov. 10, 2016
Many progressive groups have rallied behind Mr. Ellison, although he hasn't formally announced his bid for DNC chairman. He said in a Thursday night conference call with progressive activists that he would make an announcement on Monday.
Mr. Ellison, an African-American Muslim, serves as co-chairman of the House Progressive Caucus and was an early backer of Mr. Sanders. He was first elected in 2006.  Mr. Schumer’s endorsement was first reported by Politico.
The heavyweight endorsement and support of the progressive activists will make him a formidable candidate for the job. Also in the running is former DNC chairman Howard Dean, who said in a Thursday Twitter message that the party needs “organization and focus on the young” as well as a strategy for competing in all 50 states.
“I am in for chairman again,” he wrote.
The new chairman, who will succeed interim chair Donna Brazile,will be chosen at the next meeting of the DNC early next year.
Progressive critics of the party establishment, including Sanders supporters, have been arguing that the DNC has become too much of a fundraising machine that is not connecting with rank-and-file voters, and that contributed to the party’s failure in the election. They have argued that the DNC should be more focused on grass-roots organizing.
Asked about the DNC role in Thursday night’s conference call, Mr. Ellison said, “The key here has got to be a turnout-based, grass-roots based Democratic Party that uses relationship building, one on one.’’

Mr. Schumer seemed to embrace that view of the DNC’s changing role in backing Mr. Ellison.
“Without a Democratic White House, Schumer’s view is the DNC is where grass-roots organizing in sync with legislative battles should be organized,’’ said Schumer spokesman Matt House.
